README.md, before:

# predict360user

Python library to predict user navigation in 360 videos. It extends extends [Rondon 360-videos models/dataset collection](https://gitlab.com/miguelfromeror/head-motion-prediction).

## Classes

The main library classes are:

* `Dataset`: stores the dataset in memory as a pandas.DataFrame and provides functions for data preprocessing, such as user clustering by entropy.

|     | ds    | user    | video         | traject       | traject_hmps |
| --- | ----- | ------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| 0   | david | david_0 | david_10_Cows | [[x,y,z],...] | [[4x6],...]  |

* `Trainer`: train and perform prediction models from Rondon collection
* `Plot360`: plot viewport, trajectory or predictions for users using 3D visualization

<div style="text-align:center"><img src="docs/requests.gif" width="300" ></div>

## Datasets

| dataset            | users (u) | videos (v) | trajects (u*v) |
| ------------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------------- |
| Xu_PAMI_18 [1]     | 58         | 76        | 4,350          |
| Xu_CVPR_18 [2]     | 30        | 208        | 6,240          |
| Nguyen_MM_18 [3]   | 48         | 11        | 528            |
| Fan_NOSSDAV_17 [4] | 25         | 10        | 250            |
| David_MMSys_18 [5] | 57         | 19        | 1,083          |
| total              |            |           | 12,451         |


## Models

| model              | category | user input      | video input | status |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------------- | ----------- | ------ |
| pos_only [7]       | LSTM     | position        | saliency    | OK     |
| Xu_PAMI_18 [1]     | LSTM     | position        | saliency    | WIP    |
| Xu_CVPR_18 [2]     | LSTM     | gaze            | gaze RGB    | WIP    |
| Nguyen_MM_18 [3]   | LSTM     | position, tiles | saliency    | WIP    |
| Li_ChinaCom_18 [6] | LSTM     | tiles           | saliency    | WIP    |
| Rondon_TRACK [7]   | LSTM     | position        | saliency    | WIP    |


## Requirements

To install TensorFlow with Cuda, please follow https://www.tensorflow.org/install/.
For instance, you can do the following command with conda.

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge cudatoolkit=11.2 cudnn=8.1.0
```

Then install requirements,

```bash
pip install -r requeriments.txt
```

Ensure predict360user/head_motion_prediction submodule and patch it.

```bash
git submodule init
git submodule update
sed -i -e 's/import keras/import tensorflow.keras/g' -e 's/from keras/from tensorflow.keras/g'  ./predict360user/head_motion_prediction/*.py
```

## Train and evaluate

To comparison, the code bellow shows how to train/evaluate one dataset using [Rondon repo](https://gitlab.com/miguelfromeror/head-motion-prediction) and using this project.

Rondon:

```bash
cd predict360user/head_motion_prediction
python training_procedure.py -train -dataset_name David_MMSys_18 -model_name pos_only
python training_procedure.py -evaluate -dataset_name David_MMSys_18 -model_name pos_only
```

predict360user:

```bash
python run.py -train -dataset_name david -model_name pos_only
python run.py -evaluate -dataset_name david -model_name pos_only
```

## Documentation

See notebooks at [docs/](docs/) folder.

## Cite

If you use `predict360user` please consider citing it as:

  ```bibtex
  @misc{predict360user,
    author = {Guedes, Alan},
    title = {predict360user: library to predict user navigation in 360 videos},
    year = {2021},
    publisher = {GitHub},
    journal = {GitHub repository},
    howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/alanlivio/predict360user}}
  }
  ```

## A note on maintainance

This repository was born as part of UK EPSR SpheryStream project. Its maintainance is limited by the time and the resources of a research project. Even if I would like to automate all 360 user prediction models, I do not have the time to maintain the whole body of automation that a well maintained package deserves. Any help is very welcome. A quick guide to interacting with this repository:

* If you find a bug, please open an issue, and I will fix it as soon as I can.
* If you want to request a new feature, please open an issue, and I will consider it as soon as I can.
* If you want to contribute yourself, please open an issue first, let's discuss objective, plan a proposal, and open a pull request to act on it.

If you would like to be involved further in the development of this repository, please contact me directly at: aguedes dot at ucl dot ac dot uk.


## References

[1] https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8418756  
[2] https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8578657  
[3] https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3240508.3240669  
[4] https://doi.org/10.1145/3204949.3208139  
[5] https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3083165.3083180  
[6] https://eudl.eu/pdf/10.1007/978-3-030-06161-6_49  
[7] https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.11702.pdf

Commit message:

add environment.yml and update README

README.md, after:

# predict360user

Python library to predict user navigation in 360 videos. It extends extends [Rondon 360-videos models/dataset collection](https://gitlab.com/miguelfromeror/head-motion-prediction).

## Classes

The main library classes are:

* `Dataset`: stores the dataset in memory as a pandas.DataFrame and provides functions for data preprocessing, such as user clustering by entropy.

|     | ds    | user    | video         | traject       | traject_hmps |
| --- | ----- | ------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| 0   | david | david_0 | david_10_Cows | [[x,y,z],...] | [[4x6],...]  |

* `Trainer`: train and perform prediction models from the Rondon collection
* `Plot360`: plot viewport, trajectory or predictions for users using 3D visualization

<div style="text-align:center"><img src="docs/requests.gif" width="300" ></div>

## Datasets

| dataset            | users (u) | videos (v) | trajects (u*v) |
| ------------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------------- |
| Xu_PAMI_18 [1]     | 58         | 76        | 4,350          |
| Xu_CVPR_18 [2]     | 30        | 208        | 6,240          |
| Nguyen_MM_18 [3]   | 48         | 11        | 528            |
| Fan_NOSSDAV_17 [4] | 25         | 10        | 250            |
| David_MMSys_18 [5] | 57         | 19        | 1,083          |
| total              |            |           | 12,451         |

## Models

| model              | category | user input      | video input | status |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------------- | ----------- | ------ |
| pos_only [7]       | LSTM     | position        | saliency    | OK     |
| Xu_PAMI_18 [1]     | LSTM     | position        | saliency    | WIP    |
| Xu_CVPR_18 [2]     | LSTM     | gaze            | gaze RGB    | WIP    |
| Nguyen_MM_18 [3]   | LSTM     | position, tiles | saliency    | WIP    |
| Li_ChinaCom_18 [6] | LSTM     | tiles           | saliency    | WIP    |
| Rondon_TRACK [7]   | LSTM     | position        | saliency    | WIP    |

## Requirements

The project dependecies are described in pip [requeriments.txt](requeriments.txt) file. Do as follow to install them in a conda environment with [TensorFlow and Cuda](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/pip). At Windows, you must install [SDK and MSVC](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/) becuase of [spherical_geometry](https://github.com/spacetelescope/spherical_geometry) package.

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

To fetch and patch the Rondon head_motion_prediction submodule, do

```bash
git submodule init
git submodule update
sed -i -e 's/import keras/import tensorflow.keras/g' -e 's/from keras/from tensorflow.keras/g'  ./predict360user/head_motion_prediction/*.py
```

## Train and evaluate

To comparison, the code bellow shows how to train/evaluate one dataset using [Rondon repo](https://gitlab.com/miguelfromeror/head-motion-prediction) and using this project.

Rondon:

```bash
cd predict360user/head_motion_prediction
python training_procedure.py -train -dataset_name David_MMSys_18 -model_name pos_only
python training_procedure.py -evaluate -dataset_name David_MMSys_18 -model_name pos_only
```

predict360user:

```bash
python run.py -train -dataset_name david -model_name pos_only
python run.py -evaluate -dataset_name david -model_name pos_only
```

## Documentation

See notebooks at [docs/](docs/) folder.

## Cite

If you use `predict360user` please consider citing it as:

  ```bibtex
  @misc{predict360user,
    author = {Guedes, Alan},
    title = {predict360user: library to predict user navigation in 360 videos},
    year = {2021},
    publisher = {GitHub},
    journal = {GitHub repository},
    howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/alanlivio/predict360user}}
  }
  ```

## A note on maintainance

This repository was born as part of UK EPSR SpheryStream project. Its maintainance is limited by the time and the resources of a research project. Even if I would like to automate all 360 user prediction models, I do not have the time to maintain the whole body of automation that a well maintained package deserves. Any help is very welcome. A quick guide to interacting with this repository:

* If you find a bug, please open an issue, and I will fix it as soon as I can.
* If you want to request a new feature, please open an issue, and I will consider it as soon as I can.
* If you want to contribute yourself, please open an issue first, let's discuss objective, plan a proposal, and open a pull request to act on it.

If you would like to be involved further in the development of this repository, please contact me directly at: aguedes dot at ucl dot ac dot uk.

## References

[1] https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8418756  
[2] https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8578657  
[3] https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3240508.3240669  
[4] https://doi.org/10.1145/3204949.3208139  
[5] https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3083165.3083180  
[6] https://eudl.eu/pdf/10.1007/978-3-030-06161-6_49  
[7] https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.11702.pdf
